1:(What is Collection ) ?
1-Rpresting a group of object as a single entite knowas collection .It can be same type of maybe different type .
2-In collection we can perfrom addintion of the element division of the element and updating the element .
3-The collection allow to store matain and manage the element .
Ex1-Collection of mails
2-collection of product

2:(What is collection framework libray) ?
1-Collection framwork libray it is a set of interface or predefind classes .
2-All the collection framework implemention classes implement the standad datastructure .
3-The collection framwork libray is build on abstrction princple .
Where we can use the function of collection framework with out knowing the implement details .
4-The complet collection framework libray is present in the java util package .

3:(Important interface in collection) ?
  1.Iterable . 
  2.collection .
  3.List--->1-ArrayList,2-Vector,3-Linkedlist .
  4.set--->1-Hashset,2-sorted set 3-linked hash set,4-navigatabke set 5-treeset .
  5.queue--->1-Deque,2-Priorety Queue .

4:ArrayList:-
1-The arraylist class is a implemented with a resizeable array datastructure .
2-This will take moretime and consume more memory since the growing of arraylist .
3-The random access time of the any element in an array is same .
4-Hence array list is more preferance when ever we have situation element we have to acces an element .
5-The array list is not prefarble when ever we are performing the insertion & deletion operation, 
both the operation consume time in the sifting the element . 

5:Vector:-
1-It is a implement class of list interface .
2-Vector implements 3 maker interface interface  1-serlizable 2-colenable 3-Random access.
3-The vector class is implement useing resizeable array .
4-defulat capacity is 10 .
5-The vector grow by double the capacity .
6-implemention wise array list is a copy of vector class but the vector method are syncronized .
7-Hence vector is athreat safe class which allow only one threat to use .

6:Linked list:-
1-linked list is a implemention class of list interface .
2-linkedlist is only implement 2 inrerface serlizable  cloneable .
3-Linked list class is implemented by using double linked list datastructure .
4-It doesnot have any defult cappacity an it grows one node at a time .
5-The linked list class show 2 behavour and 2 properties .
    1-list properties
    2-Deque properties
6-it overload constructor 1-No parameter constructor 2-Collection type parameter constructor .
7,8

7:Queue:-
1-It is a type of collection where the element are process fifo order .
2-The queue element are not index base .
3-The queue doesnot allow null .
4-Queue allows dublicate element .
5-Queue ia a unoreder collection . 

7:Queue
1-it followthe rull of first in first out .
2-it s not in order .
3-it dosnot allow null .
4-it is not index base .
5-it allow dublicate element .

8:Queue interface:-
1-The Queue interface is a child of collection interface.
2-The queue interfcae specify the standad operation that can perform any type of queue .
3-The method of queue 
   1-public boolean ofter(object element);
   2-public object remove();
   3-public object poll();
   4-public object element();
   5-public object peek();

