1-The array list is the implemention class of list interface .
2-It is implemented class of resizable array datastructure .
3-The random acces time of the element in the array list is same  .
4-it is more preferable when we have the situtation to acess the elements .
5-The array list is not preferable when ever we have to do inseration and deletion operation
both the operation consume time in the shifting the element .
6-The implemetion 3 marker interface 1-serializble
                                     2-clonable
                                     3-Randomaccess
7-The defulat size of the array is 10.
8-it is incress by useing arrayCapacity*3/2+1 .


Vector:-
1-it is a implementation class of list interface .
2-it has 3 marker interface serilizable, cloable and random acces varibale .
3-The vector class is implemented using resizable array .
4-The defult capaciy of vector is 10.
5-the growing cappatity of vector is double .
6-Implemetion wise array list and vector class are same but the method are asyncronus .
7-Hence the vector is threat safe class which allow onlly one threat to use it .


Queue-:
It is a type of collection the element are process into fifo order .
The quqeue element are not index base .
The queue dosnot allow null .
Queue not allow dublicate element .
Genrally queue is a unoreder collecion .

Queue Interface:-
The queue interfce is a child of collecion interface .
The queue interface specifiy the standed opration that can perform any type of queue .

The method of queue:-
1-public boolean add(object key):
add the element tail end in the queue
2-public boolean offer(object element);
add element taill end in the queue .
3-public object remove():
This method remove the head element of the queue if the queue is empty it gives us to execption throw no such element exception
4:-public object pull():
THis method use to remove the element in the head element if the element queue is emepty it dosont give such excption it gives to null .
5-public object element():
THis method use to retun the head element of the queue if the queue is empty it gives use to exception nosuch element present
6-public object peek():
This method use to retun the head element f the queue is the queue is empty it gives use to null .

SET
Set it is a type of interface it dosnot allow dublicate .
Set is not a index base .
Set is a unorder collection .
Set allow null but not dublicate .


Map:-
Hashmap     hashTable   Sotedmap
Linkedmap               Navigatablemap
                        Treemap       