.Class
A java class is defination block which store the behaviout and propertis of an object .

.Object
An object is real world entity thst has its own meaning and states .
An object is a copy of the class which content an all the non static data member .
The non-static member are loaded to the memory when we create an object .

.Refrance Varibale-
Student obj=new Student();
(Non-           (Constructor)
premitive)
Any variable that is declare use in non-primtive data type is know as Refrance variable .
We can create a Refrance variable useing new keyword .
A Refrance variable can declare useing class name, Interface name, Enum name .
A Refrance variable either store the address or the null vaule .

.Null
Null is keyword which meaning is nothing .
It is defult value of the java for all the Refrance variable .
When a Refrance assign a null value it is called null Refrance .
When we try to access a null Refrance it gives us a error called null Refrance error .


Deep copy-
Multiple Refrance variable of the same class with each Refrance variable assign a differnet object is know ass deep copy
If we change one Refrance variable it not affect the other Refrance variable


Shallow Copy-
Multiple Refrance variable of the same class assign a common object it is know as Shallow copy .
In case the changes made by one Refrance will affect the other Refrance variable .

MEMORY MANGEMENT
Memory Mangment in java end to end memory Mangment done by jvm at runtime .
The JVM makes of the following area classarea,heap,stack,methodarea .


classarea
All the static member are allocate to this area
All the static member are loaded by the classloader.
All static member are allocate to the memory during classloding
All the static member load to the class once.
This aree is kow ass static poll .

Heap Area-
All the non static member are allocate here .
All non static member are loading to heap area .
All the non static are allocate to the memory during object creation .
In heap area the object are not store sequencially .

Heap Area-
All the non static member are allocate here .
all the non static member are load to heap area .
All the non-static member are loaded to the heap area during object creation .
in heap area the object are not store sequencially .

Method area 
Al the method defination are store here .

Stack area-
All the method exeution in java done the stack area .
Stacka area fllow lifo .
ALl the variable area allocate memory to stack area .
Stack area is know as execution engine .

Stack Area
All the method execution in java are done the stack area .
This is know as Excution engine .
Stack area floow lifo .

Static Block-
Static blocks are used to initlized static data member .
Static block are directly writen the class body  useing static keyword .
In asingle static block we can initlized Multiple static datamember .
In asingle class we can declar multiplle static block .
Static block of a class are execut sequencially .


Non static
It is use to initlized non static datamember .
Non-static block are declar directly in the class body without useing static keyword .
In a single non static block we declare multiple nonstatic datamember .
In a class we can delar multiple non static datamember which is execut sequencially .
nonstatic block are execut by jvm during object creation .

Constructor 
Constructor are the special kind of datamember function that are use to intilized non static datamember during object creation .
Every class in java has a constructor is know as defult constructor .
A constructor will always same name as class name .
A constructor get execut during object creation .
In java constructor are 2 type 1-defult constructor
  2user defind constructor -1-zero argument
                            2-parametrized constructor


Zero argument constructor is create by the programmer .
In Zero arrgumment constructor we can initlized the nonstatic data inside the constructor body .
We cannot pass the arrgumment in the zero arrgumment constructor .

parametrized constructor
The parametrized constructor is created by the programmer 
In the parametrized constructor we can initlized nonstatic datamember with the help of arrgumment .

Constructor Overloading 
Constructor Overloading is the concept in which multiple constructor is create in a single class with different arrgumment
is know as constructor Overloading .

INHERITANCE-
INHERITANCE is the concept a class aquaring the propertis of another class is know as inheritance .
inheritance is done useing the propertis of extends key word .
The concept of inheritance is also know I&A relationship .

Inheritance rulls-
the super class cannot access propeties of sub class .
If super class is final we cannot access the propeties .
The subclass cannot inherit the superclass following propertis 1-private 2-static 3-constructor 4-intilization block.

Use of inheritance
1-Code reuseablity
2-Softwear inhancement
3-Code modification 
4-Genralization modification .

Type of inheritance 1-Single Level inheritance 2-Multi level inheritance 3-Hearchialinheritance 4-Multiple inheritance 5-Hybrid inheritance
Single Inheritance
In this form of inheritance the propertis of superclass is extends by one class.
Multi level inheritance-
A super class having more then one subclass in different level .
A superclass haveing multiple subclass of same level .
Hearchial Inheritance-
in this form of inheritance the propertis a superclass more then one subclass in the samelevel .
Hybrid Inheritance
It is the combination other of from of inheritance .
Multiple Inheritance







Constructor chaning
It is the phenomena of one constructor called the propertis of another constructor .
In java we can perform constructor chaning in 2 ways .
Using this() statement .
Using super() statement .

This() 
it is use by the programmer to call the another constructor of the same class .
This() statement should always be return int he first line of the constructor .
In a constructor we can write only one constructor .
This of statement will allways be return expilcitly by the programmer .

super()
Super() statement is used to call another constructor of the superclass .
Super() always be writen the first line of the constructor .
Inside a constructor we can write only one super statement .
Super() if the programmer froget to writen then the implictly by the compiler .


UPCASTING -
It is the concept of assign the Refrance variable or object of subclass to the Refrance variable of superclass .
it is implictly process that is supported by the compiler .
Affter UPCASTING we cannot access the propertis of subclass .

DownCasting-
DownCasting is the concept of assigning the Refrance variable of the superclass to Refrance variable of the subclass .
DownCasting is the expilcitly process that is not supported by the compiler .
To perform DownCasting programmer has to provied the casting statement .
Before down casting UPCASTING is mandatory .
After down casting e can access both super class and subclass .

Method overloading-
Method overloading is the concept of assigning multiple method in a class same name and differnt arrgument list.
when we overloading it is mandatory to vary the arrgument list .
we can vary the arrgument list in 3 ways 1-type of the arrgument
                                        2-Length of the arrgument 
                                        3-sequenc of the arrgument

Method overloading is use to perform same taskin different way .
methodoverloading is use to acchive compile time polymortshim .


Method Overriding
It is the concept of subclass inheriting the method from the superclass and changing method defination from the superclass
while keeping same the method declartion .
To perform method Overriding inheritance is mandatory .
It is use to upgrade the exting Softwear functionality .
it is use ot achive runtime polymorphism .


Constructor Overloading
1-In a class content multilpe constructor with different arrgument list  is know as constructor over loading  .
2-Every class in java will have a constructor 
3-the constructor name is allways same as class name .
4-A constructor will get executed during object creation .


Constructor
constructor are the special kind of member in a class are use to intiliz non static data member during object creation .
Ever java class will have a constructor .
A constructor will always same name as class name .

HAS_A
It is the concept where one class is act as a contener object of a another class .
Has-A relationship is 2 type 1-composition 2-Aggrigation
composition- composition in which the content object can not exit with out the contener .
1-car has enginee
2-college has a department
3-Mobile has cammera
Aggrigation- It is a weak from of assocatin where the contain object can exit without the container .
1-car has a driver
2-Mobile has a cim card

Method binding-
when ever the method is called by jvm has to perform method binding .
Method binding is the process joing the method defination and method declartion before loading into the stack area .


polymorphism
It is a concept of an object showing differnt behaviour in it s life time 
it is 2 type compile time Second runtime
Compile time
It support Mahod overloading .
In compile polymorphism the method binidng decession are taken by the compiler at compile time .
It is also know as static polymorphism .

runtime polymorphism
It support method overriding 
In runtime polymorphism the method binidng decession are taken by jvm at runtime .
It is also know as dynamic polymorphism.
As the method decession are taken at runtime it is know as later binding .

Abstraction
In genral abstract is the concept of hiding implemention details and exposing the functionality .
In java Abstraction useing 1-abstract method 
                          2-abstract class
                          3-Interface 

Abstraction method
Abstraction method are declar with abstract keyword .
We can declar abstract method inside an abstract class or Interface .
abstract cannot be static,private and final .


Why abstract class is allways an particial Abstraction
An abstract class content a abstract method and concrit method .
Every other class even an abstrct class haveing an constructor .
It will content the inherit concrit method of class object .

Interface 
An Interface is declar with the key word Interface .
Inside an Interface all the member should be public staic final .
All the member function will be public and final
we cannot create an object for a Interface directly .
we have to create an implemention class and overriding the abstract method .

Encapsulation
Encapsulation is the concept of binding related data and behaviour into single entity .
In java a class is a Encapsulation of datamember and member function .
A package in Encapsulation of java file.
A jar file is a Encapsulation of package .
The main aim of Encapsulation is to provied security .

Access-modifer
Access modifer can be use the programmer restrict the visibilty of the member inside a class .
In java the member can be private defult protected public .

Defult- When programmer dosnot provied any access modifer then the member should by said to defult access modifer 
it can access in the class and in the package

protected it can access in the class, int he package and out side the package by inheritance .
public class their is no restriction on the public class .

java bean class is 100 example of an inheriatance 